Scheduler
=========
Rino Jose <@rjose>

The scheduling algorithm needs to lay work out in time. The goal is to estimate
start and end dates for each work item given a set of assigned staff with
availability information for each person.

For different situations, there may be different flavors of scheduling. For
instance, for quarterly planning, we may not know the actual work assignments.
We'll need to make assumptions about how work can be allocated and scheduled.
For instance, we may assume that apps, native, and web work can proceed in
parallel, but QA must take place afterwards. In the case of sprint planning, we
will know specific people assigned to each task and can lay work out explicitly
based on their schedules and the task dependencies.

For the implementation strategy, we should focus on the quarterly planning
algorithms first and then see what we can abstract.

Sep 10, 2013
------------
In addition to the "qplan work v1" and "qplan staff v1" streams, we'll need an
availability/unavailability stream. What's better to send? Probably
unavailability. At this level, we'll figure out total unavailable days for each
person and subtract that off from total manpower. We'll need to convert this to
manweeks.

What are some assumptions?

        - For each work item:
                - Apps, Native, and Web can proceed in parallel
                - BB and SET can proceed in parallel, but after any apps,
                  native, and web work

        - The scale on an estimate indicates how many people can work on the
          task at once. For instance, 3S means that 3 people can work at the
          same time on the task for 1 weeks, whereas L means that only one
          person can work on the task at once for a total of 3 weeks.

        - A team with 4 people in a skill group has 4 slots available for
          scheduling.

        - We can lay work out along available workdays, but we'll need a way to
          map the workdays back into dates. How about we divide the unavailable
          days into 3 and pack those days at the end of each month?

Alright, so what are some of the tricky parts of this?

        - Parsing dates
        - Deciding what's a weekend
        - Counting unavailable days
        - Laying work into slots

We should write the work layout function in general terms so we can apply it to
generic slots or slots with people in them.

Fitting this together
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
OK, so how will all of this fit together? Construct a list of dates, one per day
in the quarter -- this will be an index for everything dealing with dates. Next,
let's focus in on one track (not the "All" track) since the process will be the
same. For each person in a skill group, define list of Int corresponding to each
day in the quarter: 0 means not available. We need to understand what days are
weekends and which dates are unavailable (there may be some interesting things
we do with the unavailability lists). Sum all of these lists by skill group to
get an availability list for each day in the quarter.

The next step is to lay work out. For each work item, we need to split the
required skills into two groups: [apps, native, web] and [BB, SET]. We could
then lay work out in parallel and across for each group. The latest date for the
apps should be the earliest date for the QA (actually, we could use this for the
first group as a state pattern). I'll have to think about this one a bit. At the
end, we should have dev complete and QA complete dates for each work item. This
should be a new data type.

At this point, we can arrange work by theme, by track, or anything else that we
can group by in the work items.

Implementation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Let's start by creating an availability list for the quarter. Let's just put
this under Filters and call it "Schedule.hs". Alright, I have my test function
set up. Let's start with an Availability type. We'll need to parse dates and
do some date computation. Alright, was able to parse dates and do date
arithmetic. What's next? Let's see if we can construct a list of days to use
as an index. Done! Next, let's add holidays. I'll assume we have a list of
days instead of date ranges. Done.

OK, the next thing we need to do is compute availability by person. We should
have an augmented staff stream that includes out of office days. The python
script that conditions data should add this. We should update the Person type
to add this. After we do this, let's add a list of People and then map a
function that takes people into available days.

After this, let's write a function that adds availability (this should just be
a fold with a zip). Actually, before we do this, I think workdays should be a
pair of (Day, Bool). Let's make that change first. OK, now let's compute
availability. Done! I'm feeling like I should check in. Let's create a
schedule_branch and add it there. Done!

OK, let's figure out how to lay work out using an availability list. I think
we want to send the state down as we go. We'll have to update the Work type.
We'll need a dev complete date and a QA complete date. These should be of type
Maybe Day since they may be understaffed. After we add these dates to Work,
let's think about the function signature. Actually, thinking about this some
more, I think the dev and QA complete dates should be separate from Work and
added on as a pair.

Hmmm...this is still not cool. The crux is that we have dependencies that
we're not handling yet. Until we do, let's just have the python scripts filter
out the QA work for the purposes of scheduling.

OK, to lay out work, we'll need to compute manpower from a set of skills (that
we'll need to look up). This might be the time when we start sharing code
between the filters. For now, let's hardcode the skills list. OK, what we need
is something like (2, 3.0) meaning this will take 2 people working for 3 weeks
each. This functionality should go into SkillAmount. Done! I have a vague
feeling that I'm hacking stuff up a little, but I'll keep going.

To work out the next part, I think I need to sketch some things out. We'll
have to pass the new availability lists down in a State Monad-like way.
Alright, this is interesting enough to do some TDD on. Let's add a
TestSchedule file and start running!

Thought: It would be nice to set up a Haskell compute server

TODO: Add parsing of holidays in Person. Also add holidays to output (and
input) of python script.


Sep 11, 2013
------------
Alright, I took another look at the State Monad and I think this is the right
thing to use. I just need to define the state. The result of the stateful
computation should be a new date. The state should be a list of Days, a list
of skill availabilities (by days), and a list of earliest starting points for
each skill availability. We should probably define a new type for this and
then cast the scheduleWorkItem computation as a State-ful computation. OK, I
have a frame of something working. What I want to do next is to map this
stateful computation over an array of work items and gather their results.
Done! That's pretty awesome.

OK, now we can code up our function that schedules a work item. We should be
ready to go after that. This will require some TDD to get right. Let's start
by pulling the function definition out as its own function. Hmmm. It seems
like I need another State monad to do the consumption calculation. Nah, just
needed to write a recursive function and pass the state down.

Alright, this is probably the heart of the algorithm. The next step is to map
"consume" across all skills and take the maximum index. If any is Nothing, the
result should be Nothing.

It seems to work! Let me see if I can clean up the test so I can run different
scenarios easily. I think I need different tests and then variations within
each test. Done!

OK, the next thing we'll do before cleaning code up is to see if we can tie the
track scheduling together. If we can do some TDD on this, we should clean up and
spend tomorrow pulling data together. Hmmm..not quite there yet. We need to do
some of the same stream manipulations here as we did for the main QPlan filter.
I'll pick this up tomorrow. We may be able to share some code between the
filters.

One thing we should do this time around is print stacked streams instead of JSON
(for both filters, actually). We should write some lua code that can pull the
streams apart. We should document these streams as well on github. We should
probably just emit the scheduling data along with the main QPlan data. We'll
tackle all of this tomorrow. We'll have to specify skills to schedule for as
well.

Sep 12, 2013
------------
Let's start by pulling the functions in the Schedule filter over to QPlan and
see if we can construct our input data properly. We need to add the ability to
parse out of office days. Let's do some TDD on Person to make sure this comes
out right. Done! OK, now, let's update our q3mobile script to add vacation days
(at least a slot for them). Now, let's see if we can read in people with
vacations. Done!

OK, now let's see if we can construct SkillAvailability for each track. How
should I do this? For each of the trackStaff elements, I could filter the skill
groups according to a skill list and then return a list of skill availabilities
associated with each group. Let's give this a try. OK, I've hooked it up other
than filtering the skills to schedule out. Let's run it to see if it looks ok.
Looks good! Let's write the filter function next. Done!

One thing that I'm doing is skipping the first element of trackStaff and
trackWork since that contains the "All" track. I want scheduling to be done by
track.

Alright, now that we have availabilities by track, we should be able to schedule
track work. We'll need to construct a SchedAvail for each track and then just
run the work items across it. Done! Let's check this in.

OK, the next thing I want to do is to get the q3mobile script to generate the
correct stream info (at least mocked up) so we can clean out the QPlan haskell
code. Done.

Now, let's see if we can generated some stacked streams. I think we'll need to
do nested streams. Done!

Alright, for tomorrow, let's do the following:
        - Write lua code to unstack streams
        - Write lua code to parse qplan output
        - Try to pull vacation info in

TODO: Add new spec for streams
TODO: After the dust clears, we'll need to rename our functions and do general
cleanup.
